1st week (20.11.2023 - 27.11.2023)
While the team leader was setting up the system, I researched possible ideas, thought about the possible tasks that I would be willing to do, and joined the NEAT Algorithm Implementation and Physics Engine teams.

2nd week (27.11.2023 - 04.12.2023)
During the first half of the week, I programmed the removing neuron and removing link mutations. Further, I implemented disable/enable neuron and link functions that would be necessary in the future to implement recessive/dominant traits. Later, I met Ioana to discuss the collision system. We first determined the base functions necessary to test if two objects were intersecting  (circle-circle, circle-line collisions). Then since we are expecting entities to change directions and interact with many others, we thought that it would be more efficient to find an algorithm that avoids looping through each combination of two objects (O(n^2)). We looked through options Sweep and Prune Algorithm, R-tree, and Spatial Partitioning, and decided at the end that Spatial Partitioning would be the best option for more practical utilization. Then, we partitioned the work and I programmed the functions for determining collisions.

3rd week (04.12.2023 - 11.12.2023)
I have modified the collision functions from last week according to the new tests. Further, I updated the grid system (spatial partitioning). Before my modification, the program was only checking collisions of entities that have centers in the same grid. Now, depending on the size of the objects, it checks more of the neighboring grids and neighboring grids to neighboring grids, and so on. This way the function ensures all possible collisions are detected with as few comparisons as possible. Moreover, I modified the pre-existing variables to store pointers to objects rather than the objects themselves for maintenance purposes. I have modified and added functions in the system-links/grid-update branch. However, due to the crash of UI, the changes I added were committed through Ioana’s “Vector Grid and Fixed Bugs” and  “Merge pull request #53 from EvolutionSimulator/system-links/fix-undorder…” commits. To be more specific, I wrote CheckCollisions and GetNeighbours functions from scratch and modified all the other functions in simulation data to work with vectors instead of unordered maps and pointers instead of objects.

4th week (11.12.2023 - 18.12.2023)
I have researched how a torus map is implemented and adjusted GetNeighbours and GetDistance to work for the torus map. Further, I have reviewed my pre-existing code and improved the efficiency of the RemoveNeuron function.

5th week (18.12.2023 - 27.12.2023)
I was the project leader of “Alimentation” under the project branch “alimentation/main” and worked with Angela and Carlos on the project. At first, I decided on specific tasks: implementation of meat and plants, creatures to stop when they reach food before they eat, creatures eating as much food as their maximum energy capacity, food changing size according to the amount that has been eaten, and dead creatures to turn into meat. After I had decided on the tasks, I created the constructors of meat and plant classes and adjusted the preexisting code to initialize either meat or plant rather than the base class food. Then, I modified the “OnCollision” function to make creatures stop when they reach food, then eat depending on their energy needs, and the food to change size proportionally. In the end, I reviewed and slightly modified Angela’s code to finalize the project.

6th week (08.01.2024-15.01.2024)
I worked on both “Attacking & Grabbing” and “Egg & Pregnancy” projects. In the “Attacking & Grabbing” project, I created the functions to enable a creature to bite another creature and a small creature to perform parasitic behavior. Further, I integrated the biting function into collisions, generated the IsFoodInSight function to IsInSight, and modified the OnCollisions function. In the “Egg & Pregnancy” project, I optimized the Egg class and modified the class to inherit both from Food and Creature, enabling the egg class objects to evolve while being edible. 

7th week (15.01.2024-22.01.2024)
I have modified the bite and grab functions. I fully implemented the parasitic behavior without the intervention of hard coding. I reviewed and fixed all the previous additions and changes under the “Attacking & Grabbing” project.
